#summary describe cubi session management
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Pengelolaan Sesi Cubi =

Cubi memperbolehkan pengembang untuk memilih satu dari penanganan berikut untuk menyimpan data sesi :
 * Penyimpanan sesi dalam sistem file
 * Penyimpanan sesi dalam basisdata (_database_)
 * Penyimpanan sesi dalam memcache

Untuk menetapkan penanganan sesi yang benar, Anda dapat memodifikasi bagian sesi (_session_) dalam app_init.php
{{{
/* define session save handler */
// save session in DATABASE 
//define("SESSION_HANDLER", MODULE_PATH."/system/lib/SessionDBHandler"); 
// save session in MEMCACHE
//define("SESSION_HANDLER", MODULE_PATH."/system/lib/SessionMCHandler"); 
// for default FILE type session handler
define("SESSION_PATH", APP_HOME.DIRECTORY_SEPARATOR."session");
}}}

== Penyimpanan sesi dalam sistem file ==

If no SESSION_HANDLER is set in app.inc, by default Cubi saves session under app/sessions folder which is defined in "SESSION_PATH" in app.inc. It is recommended to have a cron job that cleans up the session folder periodically.

Using file to save session is easy, but its disadvantage is not being able to share session across multiple web servers. You would consider using
 * Sticky session that uses load balancer to route user request to the same web server with the right session id.
 * Set session folder in NFS.

== Store session in database ==

If SESSION_HANDLER is set to SessionDBHandler in app.inc, Cubi will save the session data in session table of Session database. 

The "Session" database in defined in app/Config.xml. By default, session table is in the same Cubi database. Cubi session table is configured as "MEMORY" type that gives high speed read/write.

== Store session in memcache ==

If SESSION_HANDLER is set to SessionMCHandler in app.inc, Cubi will save the session data in memcache server.

memcache is the fastest centralized solution for session sharing. In Unix/Linux environment, memcache is easy to build and install. On windows, please refer http://www.leonardaustin.com/technical/how-to-install-memcached-on-xampp-on-windows-7 for memcache installation.
Set your own session handler

As you can see, by setting SESSION_HANDLER in app.inc, you can specify your own session handler. 
For example,
{{{
// use custom logic to save session data
define("SESSION_HANDLER", MODULE_PATH."/abc/MySessionHandler"); 
}}}
