#summary Add Restful Service on Cubi
#labels Phase-Design

= Introduction =

Quoted from wikipedia "A RESTful web API (also called a RESTful web service) is a web API implemented using HTTP and REST principles. It is a collection of resources, with four defined aspects:

 * the base URI for the web API, such as http://example.com/resources/
 * the Internet media type of the data supported by the web API. This is often JSON but can be any other valid Internet media type provided that it is a valid hypertext standard.
 * the set of operations supported by the web API using HTTP methods (e.g., GET, PUT, POST, or DELETE).
 * The API must be hypertext driven."

Cubi implements restful service on top of Slim framework http://www.slimframework.com/. 


= Add Restful Service =

Add Restful service in Cubi is pretty simple. Here we use contact module as example.
 * In contact module, add RestService.xml in modules/contact/websvc. Specify its Class attribute, say ContactRestService.
 * Add ContactRestService.php under the same folder and extend ContactRestServicefrom Cubi base RestService implemented under websvc/lib/RestService.php
 * In your class, set the resourceDOMap. This map links the resource name in the uri to dataobject which is the real resource.
{{{
class ContactRestServiceextends RestService
{
    protected $resourceDOMap = array('contacts'=>'contact.do.ContactDO');
}
}}}
You are free to implement your own logic by overriding parent class's get, post, put, delete methods.
 * Now you can access the restful api with uri like
   * http://host/cubi/rest.php/contact/contacts/1?format=xml
   * http://host/cubi/rest.php/contact/contacts/1?format=json
 * For other methods POST, PUT, DELETE, you can write test code with curl or other http client class. The contact module includes Restful service testing code at /modules/contact/websvc/ContactRestTest.php