#summary Cubi Package Management

= Cubi Package Management =

Cubi provides a set of tools to help application developers to manage their packages. On the other hand, Cubi end users can acquire packages through Cubi package module.

= Package Publication =
A Cubi package is a package of files that can be distributed and installed on Cubi platform. Two main tasks need to be done in order to publish a package.
 * Create a package
 * Put a package to repository

== Create Packages ==
A Cubi package file has extension "cpk". It is actually a zip archive. 

Cubi has "package module" script to create a package of a module.
{{{
# php package_module.php module_name tag_name
}}}
Where tag_name is a special tag you want to append in the package file name.

Assume we use this tool to create package for help module.
{{{
# php package_module.php help 001
}}}
The generated package file name is like cubi_help-0.4_T001_20111215_0822.cpk
 * 0.4 is the version number of the module. It is set in mod.xml
 * T001 is the tag name given in the 2nd parameter of package_module command line
 * 20111215_0822 is the date and time. 20111215_0822 means the package is created at 8:22 December 15th, 2011.

Please keep in mind that the version needs to be increased for a new package in order to upgrade an existing module with lower version.

== Manage Package Repository ==
Package repository is the central place that lists all public available Cubi packages. Application providers can host their own repository by using Master Package module to manage it.

=== Package Categories ===
To be finished

=== Package Lists ===
To be finished

= Package Acquisition =
As an application administrator of Cubi system, he/she can find, install and upgrade Cubi packages from the package repository with either
 * Package command line tool
 * Package module

== Cubi Package command line tool ==
To be finished

== Cubi Package Module ==
To be finished