[http://code.google.com/p/openbiz-cubi/downloads/list http://openbiz-cubi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/img/cubi_intro/cubi_banner.jpg]
[http://code.google.com/p/openbiz-cubi/wiki/CubiScreenShots http://openbiz-cubi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/img/screenshots.png]
==Openbiz Cubi Platform== 
Openbiz Cubi Platform merupakan sebuah platform pengembangan aplikasi cepat (_rapid_) berbasis php. 
Tujuan utama Cubi adalah menyediakan modul yang digunakan secara umum dan seperangkat alat dalam level pengembangan. Ia akan mendorong produktivitas dari semua jenis pengembangan aplikasi web.
Projek dimulai sejak 2003, kemudian tumbuh menjadi platform aplikasi dengan fitur lengkap. 

===Berbagai Modul Openbiz-Cubi ===
Cubi menyediakan dukungan atas tugas umum sehingga pengembang dapat lebih fokus pada implementasi logika bisnis..
Diantara semua aplikasi web, tugas yang paling umum bagi administrator adalah 

   * [CubiUserModuleIndonesia Cubi User Module]  
   * [CubiThemeModuleIndonesia Cubi Theme Module]
   * [CubiSystemModuleIndonesia Cubi System Module]
   * [CubiSessionModuleIndonesia Cubi Session Module]
   * [CubiServiceModuleIndonesia Cubi Service Module]
   * [CubiSecurityModuleIndonesia Cubi Security Module]
   * [CubiPackageModuleIndonesia Cubi Package Module]
   * [CubiMenuModuleIndonesia Cubi Menu Module]
   * [CubiHelpModuleIndonesia Cubi Help Module]
   * [CubiEventLogModule Cubi EventLog Module]
   * [CubiEmailModule Cubi Email Module]
   * [CubiCronjobModule Cubi Cronjob Module]
   * [CubiCacheModule Cubi Cache Module]
   * [CubiattAchmentModule Cubi Attachment Module]
   * [CubiBackupModule Cubi Backup Module]

===Openbiz Cubi Learn guide===
     * [LearnCubiByExamples Learn Cubi By Examples]
     * [LearnCubiByExamplesIndonesia Learn Cubi By Examples - Indonesia version]
   * [CubiQuickStart Cubi Quick Start Build Application]   
   * [CubiWriteModule How to Write a Cubi Module]

===Openbiz Cubi Technology Documents===
   * [OpenbizFrameworkArchitecture Openbiz Framework Architecture]
   * [OpenbizFrameworkDataObject  Openbiz Framework DataObject]
   * [OpenbizFrameworkMetadata  Openbiz Framework Metadata]
   * [OpenbizFrameworkOverview Openbiz Framework Overview]
   * [OpenbizFrameworkService Openbiz Framework Service]         
   * [OpenbizFrameworkUI Openbiz Framework UI]
   * [OpenbizIoC Openbiz Inverse of Control container ]
   * [Template_Perfromance Template_Perfromance]
   * [CubiCleanURL Cubi CleanURL]
   * [CubiCIME Cubi CIME]
   * [CubiBuild Cubi Build]
   * [CubiBrowserScript Cubi Browser Script]
   * [CubiAccessControl Cubi Access Control]


===Openbiz Cubi Advanced Features===
   * [OpenbizCubiFeatures Openbiz Cubi Features]
   * [CubiWriteTheme Cubi Write Theme]
   * [CubiReportApplication Cubi Report Application]
   * [CubiMyAccount Cubi MyAccount]
   * [CubiI18N  Cubi Multi-language Support]
   * [CubiCoreConcepts Cubi Core Concepts]
   * [CubiConvention Cubi Convention]
   * [CubiCommandLine Cubi Command Line]
   * [CubiPackageModule Cubi Package Management Module]

===Persyaratan Untuk Menjalankan===
Openbiz Cubi can be run in Unix, Windows, Mac server supporting PHP. Other runtime environment includes
 * Web server. E.g. Apache, IIS
 * Database server. E.g. MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle, PgSQL and databases supported in Zend_DB
 * PHP 5.2 and above

If you are new to PHP, WAMPServer (http://www.wampserver.com/en/) is recommended for quick setup of web server, database and PHP.


===Install Openbiz-Cubi===
 # Download Openbiz Cubi
 # In your apache server, create a folder under htdocs. Let name it as "cubidev" 
 # Unzip cubi zip file to /cubidev/
 # Run installation wizard by launching http://yourhost/cubidev/install in your browser. The wizard will guide users to go through 
   * system check
   * database creation
   * module loading
   * application configuration
   * installation confirmation
