#sumary wiki home with multilanguage (en, id)

[http://code.google.com/p/openbiz-cubi/downloads/list http://openbiz-cubi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/img/cubi_intro/cubi_banner.jpg]
[http://code.google.com/p/openbiz-cubi/wiki/CubiScreenShots http://openbiz-cubi.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/img/screenshots.png]
==Openbiz Cubi Platform== 
Openbiz Cubi Platform is a php based rapid application development platform. 
The goal of Cubi is to provide commonly used modules and a set of tools in a platform level. It will boost the productivity of all types of web application development.
Since the project starts from 2003, It has been growing to a full-featured application platform. 

===Openbiz-Cubi various modules===
Cubi provides the support for above common tasks so that developers can really focus on implementation business logic.
Among all web applications, the most common tasks for administrators are 

   * [CubiUserModule Cubi User Module]  
   * [CubiThemeModule Cubi Theme Module]
   * [CubiSystemModule Cubi System Module]
   * [CubiSessionModule Cubi Session Module]
   * [CubiServiceModule Cubi Service Module]
   * [CubiSecurityModule Cubi Security Module]
   * [CubiPackageModule Cubi Package Module]
   * [CubiMenuModule Cubi Menu Module]
   * [CubiHelpModule Cubi Help Module]
   * [CubiEventLogModule Cubi EventLog Module]
   * [CubiEmailModule Cubi Email Module]
   * [CubiCronjobModule Cubi Cronjob Module]
   * [CubiCacheModule Cubi Cache Module]
   * [CubiattAchmentModule Cubi Attachment Module]
   * [CubiBackupModule Cubi Backup Module]

===Openbiz Cubi Learn guide===
   * [LearnCubiByExamples Learn Cubi By Examples]
   * [CubiQuickStart Cubi Quick Start Build Application]   
   * [CubiWriteModule How to Write a Cubi Module]

===Openbiz Cubi Technology Documents===
   * [OpenbizFrameworkArchitecture Openbiz Framework Architecture]
   * [OpenbizFrameworkDataObject  Openbiz Framework DataObject]
   * [OpenbizFrameworkMetadata  Openbiz Framework Metadata]
   * [OpenbizFrameworkOverview Openbiz Framework Overview]
   * [OpenbizFrameworkService Openbiz Framework Service]         
   * [OpenbizFrameworkUI Openbiz Framework UI]
   * [OpenbizIoC Openbiz Inverse of Control container ]
   * [Template_Perfromance Template_Perfromance]
   * [CubiCleanURL Cubi CleanURL]
   * [CubiCIME Cubi CIME]
   * [CubiBuild Cubi Build]
   * [CubiBrowserScript Cubi Browser Script]
   * [CubiAccessControl Cubi Access Control]


===Openbiz Cubi Advanced Features===
   * [OpenbizCubiFeatures Openbiz Cubi Features]
   * [CubiWriteTheme Cubi Write Theme]
   * [CubiReportApplication Cubi Report Application]
   * [CubiMyAccount Cubi MyAccount]
   * [CubiI18N  Cubi Multi-language Support]
   * [CubiCoreConcepts Cubi Core Concepts]
   * [CubiConvention Cubi Convention]
   * [CubiCommandLine Cubi Command Line]
   * [CubiPackageModule Cubi Package Management Module]

===Run-time requirement===
Openbiz Cubi can be run in Unix, Windows, Mac server supporting PHP. Other runtime environment includes
 * Web server. E.g. Apache, IIS
 * Database server. E.g. MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle, PgSQL and databases supported in Zend_DB
 * PHP 5.2 and above

If you are new to PHP, WAMPServer (http://www.wampserver.com/en/) is recommended for quick setup of web server, database and PHP.


===Install Openbiz-Cubi===
 # Download Openbiz Cubi
 # In your apache server, create a folder under htdocs. Let name it as "cubidev" 
 # Unzip cubi zip file to /cubidev/
 # Run installation wizard by launching http://yourhost/cubidev/install in your browser. The wizard will guide users to go through 
   * system check
   * database creation
   * module loading
   * application configuration
   * installation confirmation